.\" dummy line
.TH SISC 1 "June 2005"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
sisc \- Second Interpreter of Scheme Code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sisc
[
.I option ...
] [
.I argument ... 
[
-- 
[
program-option ...
]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I SISC, 
the Second Interpreter of Scheme Code,  
is an extensible Java based interpreter of the 
Scheme language as described in the
.I Revised^5 Report on
.I the Algorithmic Language Scheme
and adds numerous extensions including Java integration.

.SH STARTUP FILE AND EXPRESSION OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-c \ name
.TP
.BI \--call-with-args \ name
Calls the top-level procedure
.I name
with the remaining command-line arguments after the 
.I --
delimiter.
.TP
.BI \-e \ expr
.TP
.BI \--eval \ expr
Evaluates the provided expression.
.TP
.BI \-x
.TP
.BI \--no-repl
Instructs 
.I SISC
to run the command line and then exit without entering the REPL.
.TP
.BI \-h \ heap-file
.TP
.BI \--heap \ heap-file
Specifies that 
.I heap-file
should be used as the initial heap image.
.TP
.BI \-p \ config-file
.TP
.BI \--properties \ config-file
Specifies a Java property file that contains application 
properties.
.TP
.BI \-l \ [<host>:]<port>
.TP
.BI \--listen \ [<host>:]<port>
Server Mode.  Listen on <host>/<port> for REPL connections.
.PP
.SH COMMAND LINE BEHAVIOR
 
The commandline is processed in the following manner.

First, the entire command line is processed, noting the settings of
each switch and accumulating all Scheme source files and arguments
after the end of options sequence.

Second, the heap file is loaded.

Third, each Scheme source file is loaded in the order they
occured on the command line. Errors are noted.

Fourth, if present, the expression in an --eval switch is
evaluated. Errors are noted.

Fifth, if present, named function in a --call-with-args switch is
applied to the arguments after the end of options sequence. 
Its return value is noted.

Sixth, --no-repl was not specified, the REPL is invoked.

Finally, if the REPL was run if its return value is an integer, that
integer is returned as SISC's overall return code. If the REPL was not
run, and any return code supporting step above was run, the most
recent return code is returned. If no return code step was performed,
but a success/failure step was performed, 1 is returned if any
failures occured, 0 otherwise. 

.SH EXECUTABLE SCRIPTS
SISC supports all the required SRFI-22 bootstraps, consult the body of SRFI-22 for 
more information about using it to write executable Scheme programs.

.PD

.SH MORE INFORMATION
For further information on SISC, please read the 
.I SISC for Seasoned Schemers
manual available at 
.PP
.ce 1
http://sisc.sourceforge.net/manual/

.SH BUGS
Submit bug reports to the SISC Users Mailing List.
.SH AUTHOR
.I SISC
was created by Scott G. Miller (sgmiller@gmail.com) with
significant contribution from Matthias Radestock 
(matthias@sorted.org).
